
著作権及び使用条件 

独立行政法人国立国語研究所 

１．語種辞書『表記統合辞書』(以後，本データ)の著作権は，独立行政法人国立
    国語研究所が保持する。

    i．ただし，本データには，奈良先端科学技術大学院大学情報科学研究科
       自然言語処理学講座（松本研究室）で作成された IPADIC ver.2.4.4 
       の辞書項目の見出し語（表記情報），読み，品詞名，活用型が含まれ
       ている。これらの著作権は，奈良先端科学技術大学院大学にある。
       IPADIC ver.2.4.4 の使用条件に基づき，本文書末尾に，IPADIC の著
       作権及び使用条件を明示する。

   ii．また，IPADIC ver.2.4.4 には，ICOTの研究成果物（ICOT フリーソフ
       トウェア）が含まれている。そのため，IPADIC ver.2.4.4 の使用条件
       には，ICOT フリーソフトウェアの使用条件中の条項が添付されている。

２．本データの使用，複製，改変，再配布は，次の条件に従う限り許可する。 

    i．本データを複製する場合は，本文書も併せて複製すること。

   ii．本データを原形あるいは改変した形で再配布する場合は，本データの
       著作権は独立行政法人国立国語研究所が保持することを明示するとと
       もに，本文書を添付すること。 

  iii．本データを改変する場合は，本データの版を明示すること。

３．本データを利用することにより，直接的，間接的に生じたいかなる損害に
    ついても，独立行政法人国立国語研究所は賠償する責任を負わない。 


-----
IPADIC ver.2.4.4 の著作権及び使用条件の表示 
(ICOT フリーソフトウェアの使用条件に関する条項を含む)

 Copyright 2000 Nara Institute of Science
 and Technology.  All Rights Reserved.
 
 Use, reproduction, and distribution of this software is permitted.
 Any copy of this software, whether in its original form or modified,
 must include both the above copyright notice and the following
 paragraphs.
 
 Nara Institute of Science and Technology (NAIST),
 the copyright holders, disclaims all warranties with regard to this
 software, including all implied warranties of merchantability and
 fitness, in no event shall NAIST be liable for
 any special, indirect or consequential damages or any damages
 whatsoever resulting from loss of use, data or profits, whether in an
 action of contract, negligence or other tortuous action, arising out
 of or in connection with the use or performance of this software.
 
 A large portion of the dictionary entries
 originate from ICOT Free Software.  The following conditions for ICOT
 Free Software applies to the current dictionary as well.
 
 Each User may also freely distribute the Program, whether in its
 original form or modified, to any third party or parties, PROVIDED
 that the provisions of Section 3 ("NO WARRANTY") will ALWAYS appear
 on, or be attached to, the Program, which is distributed substantially
 in the same form as set out herein and that such intended
 distribution, if actually made, will neither violate or otherwise
 contravene any of the laws and regulations of the countries having
 jurisdiction over the User or the intended distribution itself.
 
 NO WARRANTY
  
 The program was produced on an experimental basis in the course of the
 research and development conducted during the project and is provided
 to users as so produced on an experimental basis.  Accordingly, the
 program is provided without any warranty whatsoever, whether express,
 implied, statutory or otherwise.  The term "warranty" used herein
 includes, but is not limited to, any warranty of the quality,
 performance, merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose of
 the program and the nonexistence of any infringement or violation of
 any right of any third party.
 
 Each user of the program will agree and understand, and be deemed to
 have agreed and understood, that there is no warranty whatsoever for
 the program and, accordingly, the entire risk arising from or
 otherwise connected with the program is assumed by the user.
 
 Therefore, neither ICOT, the copyright holder, or any other
 organization that participated in or was otherwise related to the
 development of the program and their respective officials, directors,
 officers and other employees shall be held liable for any and all
 damages, including, without limitation, general, special, incidental
 and consequential damages, arising out of or otherwise in connection
 with the use or inability to use the program or any product, material
 or result produced or otherwise obtained by using the program,
 regardless of whether they have been advised of, or otherwise had
 knowledge of, the possibility of such damages at any time during the
 project or thereafter.  Each user will be deemed to have agreed to the
 foregoing by his or her commencement of use of the program.  The term
 "use" as used herein includes, but is not limited to, the use,
 modification, copying and distribution of the program and the
 production of secondary products from the program.
 
 In the case where the program, whether in its original form or
 modified, was distributed or delivered to or received by a user from
 any person, organization or entity other than ICOT, unless it makes or
 grants independently of ICOT any specific warranty to the user in
 writing, such person, organization or entity, will also be exempted
 from and not be held liable to the user for any such damages as noted
 above as far as the program is concerned.
